# ELK-Project

## Automated ELK Stack Deployment

The files in this repository were used to configure the network depicted below.

(README/Images/Network_Diagram)

These files have been tested and used to generate a live ELK deployment on Azure. They can be used to either recreate the entire deployment pictured above. Alternatively, select portions of the filebeat-playbook.yml file may be used to install only certain pieces of it, such as Filebeat.

This document contains the following details:
- Description of the Topologu
- Access Policies
- ELK Configuration
  - Beats in Use
  - Machines Being Monitored
- How to Use the Ansible Build


### Description of the Topology

The main purpose of this network is to expose a load-balanced and monitored instance of DVWA, the D*mn Vulnerable Web Application.

Load balancing ensures that the application will be highly available, in addition to restricting access to the network.

Load balancers protect against DDoS attacks by shifting attack traffic to a public cloud provider. They route client requests across servers capable of fulfilling those requests to maximize speed and capacity utilization to keep single servers from being congested with web traffic. 
The advantage of a jump box is to allow access into a network. An SSH key is used to give access to authorized users.

Integrating an ELK server allows users to easily monitor the vulnerable VMs for changes to the log files and system resources.

Filebeat watches for log files from very specfic files, such as those generated by Microsoft Azure tools. It collects data about the file system and enables analysts to monitor files for suspicious changes.

Metricbeat records system level metric logs only, such as how much CPU, RAM, and disk space is being consumed as well as Uptime. It makes it easy to collect specific information about the machines in the network. 

The configuration details of each machine may be found below.


|   Name   |    Function   | IP Address | Operating System |
|:--------:|:-------------:|:----------:|:----------------:|
| Jump Box | Gateway       | 10.0.0.4   | Linux            |
| Web 1    | Web Server    | 10.0.0.5   | Linux            |
| Web 2    | Web Server    | 10.0.0.6   | Linux            |
| ELK      | ElasticSearch | 10.4.0.4   | Linux            |

### Access Policies

The machines on the internal network are not exposed to the public Internet.

Only the jump box machine can accept connections from the Internet. Access to this machine is only allowed from the following IP addresses:

- 47.149.5.206


Machines within the network can only be accessed by jump box user.

- 13.91.176.43
- 10.4.0.4

A summary of the access policies in place can be found in the table below.

|   Name   | Publicly Accessible |     Allowed IP Addresses     |
|:--------:|:-------------------:|:----------------------------:|
| Jump Box | Yes                 | 47.149.5.206                 |
| Web 1    | No                  | Load Balancer: 40.114.87.201 |
| Web 2    | No                  | Load Balancer: 40.114.87.201 |
| ELK      | Yes                 | 10.4.0.0/16                  |

### Elk Configuration

Ansible was used to automate configuration of the ELK machine. No configuration was performed manually, which is advantageous because...

it leaves less room for human error and saves a lot of time. 

The playbook implements the following tasks:

- Install Docker.io
- Install Python3-pip
- Install Docker Module
- Increase Virtual Memory
- Download and Launch Docker ELK Container

The following screenshot displays the result of running `docker ps` after successfully configuring the ELK instance.

(README/Images/Docker_PS.png)

### Target Machines & Beats
This ELK server is configured to monitor the following machines:

- 10.0.0.5
- 10.0.0.6
- 10.4.0.4

We have installed the following Beats on these machines:

Installed filebeat and metricbeat:
- Web 1
- Web 2

These Beats allow us to collect the following information from each machine:

- Filebeat collects data about the file system and enables analysts to monitor files for suspicious changes.
- Metricbeat makes it easy to collect specific information about the machines in the network, such as how much CPU, RAM, and disk space is being consumed as well as Uptime.

### Using the Playbook
In order to use the playbook, you will need to have an Ansible control node already configured. Assuming you have such a control node provisioned: 

SSH into the control node and follow the steps below:
- Copy the install-elk.yml file to /etc/ansible/roles.
- Update the hosts file to include a group called [elk] and specify the IP address of the VM created in Azure.
- Run the playbook, and navigate to http://<elk_server_IP>:5601/app/kibana to check that the installation worked as expected.
